[Music]
check it out
the entrance is all glass and shiny
metal you step onto a glassy tile floor
and walk towards a steel gray elevator
less than a minute and you see clouds
floating right above your head you're at
the top of a mighty skyscraper with many
stories speaking of stories ready to see
some cool stories about this giant and
others of the kind the Burj Khalifa is
the tallest building in the world it's
almost twice as tall as the Empire State
Building and three times taller than the
Eiffel Tower if you laid the Burj
Khalifa pieces end-to-end they would
stretch over a quarter of the way around
the world just don't forget to put it
back together you can watch the sunset
from the bottom of the Burj Khalifa then
take an elevator to the top and watch
the sunset from there again the
skyscraper is so tall that the two
sunsets appear three minutes apart the
elevator takes less than a minute and a
half to get to the top so if you're a
fast mover you have loads of time to see
both shows the Empire State building's
tower was originally designed to serve
as a docking station for dirigibles they
were believed to be the transportation
of the future at that time the project
included gangplanks check-in and customs
offices and so on when the engineers
realized that the wind up there was too
intense for their plans they abandoned
the idea when one World Trade Center in
New York was built the Constructors used
so much concrete it would be enough to
make a sidewalk from New York City to
Chicago the building's cladding also had
enough glass to cover 20 football fields
and as much steel as in 20,000 cars
skyscrapers are made flexible otherwise
powerful winds at the top would easily
break them to avoid this unwanted
scenario most skyscrapers sway in the
wind like trees they're designed in such
a way that it doesn't damage their
structure for example
Chicago's Willis Tower can sway up to 3
feet when the wind is particularly
strong
oh that must be a wild ride the most
important part of a skyscraper its
foundation is underground it supports
the building and helps the whole thing
to remain stable the taller and heavier
the building the stronger and deeper the
foundation should be the Lloyds building
in London informally called the inside
out building is a mishmash of
architectural styles a bizarre jumble of
structures is clinging to its outside
its the building's complicated system of
elevators and water pipes the main
purpose of this outlandish design is to
keep the skyscraper uncluttered inside
it gets scorchingly hot and dubai in the
summer
that's why strong air conditioning is a
must the ones in the Burj Khalifa are no
exception these guys produce twenty
Olympic size pools of water in the form
of condensation within a year the
architects who designed Alba Hart ours
in Abu Dhabi faced a tricky task to make
the skyscrapers interior cool without
using too many air conditioners the
solution was found a giant shielding
facade it consists of a thousand moving
elements they open and close during the
day depending on the position of the Sun
the unusual facade made up of 2,000
umbrella-like modules covers almost all
the surfaces of the towers except for
the northern side the Empire State
Building holds the Guinness World Record
title for being the world's tallest
building for the longest period of time
almost 41 years the skyscraper was also
built impressively fast it took less
than 14 months to complete the
construction the word skyscraper hasn't
always meant a super tall building it
used to refer to a high standing horse
at the end of the 18th century a bit
later people use this word to describe a
triangular sail at the top of a ship's
mast and it meant a very tall man in the
19th century
Bosko vertically and Milan is a
residential complex that consists of two
towers one 360 feet and the other 250
feet high
the towers are covered with green RIT
11,000 climate plants 5000 shrubs and
480 trees that's why the high-rise
buildings look different throughout the
year the Guinness World Records have
recently given the title of the world's
speediest elevator to the one in Gong
Joe chow I took finance center the thing
moves at an impressive speed of 47 miles
per hour the previous record holder
travels inside Shanghai Tower and
reaches a speed of almost 46 miles per
hour
hey let's zoom to the top but skyscraper
elevators aren't going to get much
faster than that
a recent study claims 51 miles per hour
is likely to be the speed limit for them
any faster than that and passengers will
start to get sick it would feel even
worse when you're going down your body
might think it's falling oops I think
I'm gonna barf the elephant building in
the North Bangkok business district is
one of the most unusual high-rise
buildings in the world the construction
consists of seven parts three towers top
floor with residential Suites swimming
pools and gardens shopping area and
garages oh and don't forget about the
two big round windows for eyes and
several shapes that look like ears and
tusks another exciting high-rise
building in Bangkok is the robot
building Architects sumit gyms I
designed it for the Bank of Asia the
construction finished in 1986 and had to
symbolize the computerization of banking
the architect once admitted that he had
been inspired by his son's robot toy the
Willis Tower also known as the Sears
Tower in Chicago was designed as a group
of nine individual buildings with the
same width but with different height
they range from 50 to 108 stories the
Willis Tower also hosts the highest
observation deck in the US while
visiting it you'll find yourself on the
103rd floor at the height of 1353 feet
skyscraper architects studied the work
of Mound termites that live in Africa
South Asia and Australia to create
better cuz
directions these insects build tall
mounds littered with tiny holes fresh
air enters through these holes and cools
down the structure engineers want to
find out how this whole system works
then they'd be able to build a
skyscraper with a ventilation system
working like the termite mound walls
sure-tan whose how hot spring resort in
China has an unusual horseshoe shape
it's not only a cool designer solution
but also an engineering move to make the
entire construction lighter the 30-story
building is also earthquake resistant
Architects have been working on the
ideas of very very tall skyscrapers for
years until they realize there has to be
a height limit a building you create can
be as tall as you want but then its base
has to be wide enough to support it but
the Earth's surface is curved that's why
the base will also have its limits there
are also problems of what materials to
use and what skyscrapers shaped to pick
and don't forget about the climate that
will have a big influence on the whole
construction flame towers and Azerbaijan
are completely covered with LED screens
they can be seen from the farthest
points in the city in the evening the
buildings look like giant flames the
exceed four thousand is a project of a
hypothetical skyscraper that could
become the highest in the world more
than two and a half miles tall with a
base of almost four miles across it
would be able to house 1 million people
this monster of a skyscraper would also
cost an unimaginable 1.4 trillion
dollars to build that's why no country
has volunteered to construct the exceed
4,000 yet even though the blueprints are
ready the second tallest skyscraper in
the world Shanghai Tower is known for
its green features it has a 120 degree
twist in the middle it reduces both the
amount of construction material and the
wind load there are 270 wind turbines on
top of the building they generate more
than 10% of the skyscrapers electricity
the tower also recycles waste water and
collects rainwater
Burj Khalifa has 24,000 windows and
they're washed in an old-fashioned way
with soap and water a team of cleaners
who are obviously not afraid of heights
unlike me work all year round they only
clean the surfaces that are in the shade
to avoid getting burns from direct
sunlight and as we count up all the
stories of these magnificent skyscrapers
it's time we bring to a close our
architectural tall tales hey if you
learn something new today then give the
video a like and share with a friend and
here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life